hello welcome to our continuing series
of video instructions on how to collect
insects brought to you from Del Oro
Valley College my name is Christopher
tipping today I will be explaining how
to collect and extract the insects that
live either in or on the surface of the
soil there is an amazing amount of
insects that are associated with the
soil one could call it the undiscovered
country in terms of diversity a handful
of soil from a typical forest habitat
contain several hundred individual
insects now to extract soil insects
entomologist use an ingenious device
known as a bur lazy funnel this device
was created over a hundred years ago by
Antonio Bernays II and it uses the
natural tendencies and behaviors of soil
insects in order to work now the insects
that live in the soil require high
humidity to survive so therefore they
are very sensitive to light and are
often repelled by light a burl AC funnel
uses these natural behaviors and
tendencies to effectively extract and
collect insects that occur in samples of
soil in samples of leaves decaying wood
chips etc so today I'm going to show you
how to create your own bur lazy funnel
out of a 2-liter plastic soda bottle to
make your lazy funnel after out of the
2-liter plastic soda bottle you want to
make a cut in it right along here along
this plane so what will happen is you
will end up with two pieces that look
like this you have the top and you have
the bottom now I usually take the label
off because it allows it to work better
also you can see inside what's you are
collecting notice how the top fits in
like so so this is now a funnel well but
the next thing I do
as I put a small piece of screen in the
top here if because if you're putting
fine materials that you're hoping to
collect insects from you don't want that
material falling through the funnel you
only want the living organisms to make
it through the funnel so I have
collected some material here now the
next step is to place a small jar of
preservative usually 70% alcohol into
the bottom like so you then put this top
part on then you put the material that
you've collected into the funnel now
it's important that you don't pack it
too tightly because you want the little
insects that are in this material to be
able to travel through freely up and
down through it so once you have it set
up like so you then bring a light source
turn the light source on and it provides
heat and it also begins to dry out the
material here forcing the tiny insects
down through the material through the
funnel and then they fall into the
preservative so then you can identify
them count them do whatever you need to
do very simple setup but a very
effective way to capture a great number
of soil insects